#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{braket}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\shape smallcaps
\size larger
Problem Set 
\shape default
1, Part 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\series bold
\size huge
Perceptrons
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Note: if you get stuck, you can find sample code on the course website at:
 http://druckmann-lab.github.io/nepr208/ps1.html
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Implement Perceptron learning for binary patterns.
 An input pattern 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi^{\mu}$
\end_inset

 generates an output 
\begin_inset Formula $y^{\mu}$
\end_inset

 that we would like by learning to be equal to 
\begin_inset Formula $\sigma^{\mu}$
\end_inset

.
 Recall that the perceptron learning rule is:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{gather}
\Delta w_{j}=\begin{cases}
0 & \mbox{if }\sigma^{\mu}=y^{\mu}\\
2\eta\xi_{j}^{\mu}\sigma^{\mu} & \mbox{if }\sigma^{\mu}\neq y^{\mu}
\end{cases}
\end{gather}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Implement inputs and outputs for the Boolean AND function.
 Show that it can be learned.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Implement inputs and outputs for the Boolean XOR function.
 Show that it can 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 be learned.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\series bold
Bonus:
\series default
 implement perceptron learning for multi-layer perceptrons to show that
 the XOR function can be classified once a hidden layer is added.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
How many patterns can a perceptron learn? Implement a 10 input neuron Perceptron.
 Generate datasets with different number of randomly generated binary patterns.
 Train the Perceptron.
 See how large a dataset can still successfully train.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
